added apply cli command docs (#1746)
cloudify-cosmo/docs.getcloudify.org: content/cli/orch_cli/apply.md

2021-03-21 06:45:22.775  CFY <demo-deployment> [node_a_5s612r] Creating node instance: nothing to do
2021-03-21 06:45:22.776  CFY <demo-deployment> [node_a_5s612r] Configuring node instance: nothing to do
2021-03-21 06:45:22.778  CFY <demo-deployment> [node_a_5s612r] Starting node instance
2021-03-21 06:45:23.063  CFY <demo-deployment> [node_a_5s612r.start] Sending task 'script_runner.tasks.run'
2021-03-21 06:45:23.678  LOG <demo-deployment> [node_a_5s612r.start] INFO: Downloaded install.py to /tmp/RXNC6/install.py
2021-03-21 06:45:23.998  CFY <demo-deployment> [node_a_5s612r.start] Task succeeded 'script_runner.tasks.run'
2021-03-21 06:45:23.999  CFY <demo-deployment> [node_a_5s612r] Poststarting node instance: nothing to do
2021-03-21 06:45:24.000  CFY <demo-deployment> [node_a_5s612r] Node instance started
2021-03-21 06:45:24.176  CFY <demo-deployment> 'install' workflow execution succeeded
Finished executing workflow install on deployment demo-deployment
* Run 'cfy events list 1ae4af9f-d7b5-4c2c-b657-0de150ad665b' to retrieve the execution's events/logs

{{< /highlight >}}

On the first invoke the blueprint uploaded and `demo-deployment` deployment created and installed. 

> Before the second invocation, `node_c` added to the blueprint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the second invocation, `node_c` was added to the blueprint.
```

Blueprint `demo-deployment-21-03-2021-08-51-26` upload started.
2021-03-21 06:51:27.734  CFY <None> Starting 'upload_blueprint' workflow execution
2021-03-21 06:51:27.759  LOG <None> INFO: Blueprint archive uploaded. Extracting...
2021-03-21 06:51:27.788  LOG <None> INFO: Blueprint archive extracted. Parsing...
2021-03-21 06:51:28.376  LOG <None> INFO: Blueprint parsed. Updating DB with blueprint plan.
2021-03-21 06:51:28.459  CFY <None> 'upload_blueprint' workflow execution succeeded
Blueprint uploaded. The blueprint's id is demo-deployment-21-03-2021-08-51-26
Updating deployment demo-deployment, using blueprint demo-deployment-21-03-2021-08-51-26
2021-03-21 06:51:31.360  CFY <demo-deployment> Starting 'update' workflow execution
2021-03-21 06:51:31.637  CFY <demo-deployment> [node_c_7i8sj4] Node instance started (nothing to do)
2021-03-21 06:51:32.471  CFY <demo-deployment> 'update' workflow execution succeeded
Finished executing workflow 'update' on deployment 'demo-deployment'
Successfully updated deployment demo-deployment. Deployment update id: demo-deployment-122e55ed-8616-4ad4-94fc-8aea8ef7d356. Execution id: f2c199cd-e3c7-43d6-a579-5e3d075c2b18

{{< /highlight >}}

> In second invocation the updated blueprint uploaded and deployment-update is executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the second invocation, the updated blueprint is uploaded and deployment-update is executed.
```

---
layout: bt_wiki
title: apply
category: Docs
draft: false

> abstract: Cloudify's Command-Line Interface

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
abstract: Command-Line Interface
```

Author: Done.

aliases: /cli/apply/
---

> 

Reviewer 2: We should add some preface explaining the main usage scenario. something like:
When running frequent iterations of the same blueprint, for example during blueprint development and testing, it is useful to be able to quickly deploy and install the updated blueprint, overriding the existing deployment with the new changes. `cfy apply` is designed to assist the developer in such scenarios.

The `cfy apply` command is used to install/update a deployment using {{< param product_name >}} manager without having to manually go through the process of uploading a blueprint, creating a deployment, and executing a workflow.

> `cfy apply` command using `cfy install` or `cfy deployments update` logic depends on the existence of `DEPLOYMENT_ID`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cfy apply` command uses `cfy install` or `cfy deployments update` logic depending on the existence of the deployment referenced by `DEPLOYMENT_ID`. 
```

Author: Done.

> It is recommended to read about [`cfy install`]({{< relref "cli/orch_cli/install.md" >}}) and [`cfy deployments update`]({{< relref "cli/orch_cli/deployments.md#update" >}}) in order to understand `cfy apply` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to read about [`cfy install`]({{< relref "cli/orch_cli/install.md" >}}) and [`cfy deployments update`]({{< relref "cli/orch_cli/deployments.md#update" >}}) in order to understand the `cfy apply` command.
```

Author: Done.

`cfy apply` logic:

1. Check for `BLUPRINT_PATH` and `DEPLOYMENT_ID`.

> 2. If `BLUPRINT_PATH` is missing use default value and infer `DEPLOYMENT_ID`(explained in usage section).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If `BLUPRINT_PATH` is missing, use the default value and infer `DEPLOYMENT_ID`(explained in the usage section).
```
How about linking to the usage section?

Author: It's two rows below I don't see the point for that.

Reviewer: OK, what about the suggestion?

Author: Done.

3. Check if deployment `DEPLOYMENT_ID` exists.
 
4. Upload blueprint `BLUPRINT_PATH` to the manager.
 
5. If deployment `DEPLOYMENT_ID` exists, perform a deployment update with the uploaded blueprint.

>   Else, create a new deployment `DEPLOYMENT_ID`, and execute the `install` workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Else, create a new deployment with the name `DEPLOYMENT_ID`, and execute the `install` workflow.
```

Author: Done.

#### Usage 
`cfy apply [OPTIONS]`

> The `cfy apply` command uses the `cfy install` or `cfy deployments update'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cfy apply` command uses the `cfy install` or `cfy deployments update`
```

Author: Done

depending on the existence of the deployment specified by `DEPLOYMENT_ID`.

If the deployment exists, the deployment will be updated with the given blueprint.

> Otherwise, the blueprint will be installed (the deployment name will be DEPLOYMENT_ID).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, the blueprint will be installed and the deployment name will be `DEPLOYMENT_ID`.
```

Author: Done

> In both cases, the blueprint is being uploaded to the manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In both cases, the blueprint will be uploaded to the manager.
```

Author: Done.

`BLUEPRINT_PATH` can be a:

- local blueprint yaml file.
- blueprint archive.
- URL to a blueprint archive.
- GitHub repo (`organization/blueprint_repo[:tag/branch]`).

Supported archive types are zip, tar, tar.gz, and tar.bz2

`DEPLOYMENT_ID` is the deployment's id to install/update.

Default values:

If `BLUEPRINT_PATH` is not provided, the default blueprint path is

> 'blueprint.yaml' in the current work directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
'blueprint.yaml' in the current working directory.
```

Author: Done

If DEPLOYMENT_ID is not provided, it will be inferred from the `BLUEPRINT_PATH`
in one of the following ways:

> - **\<Directory name>**, for local blueprint path or archive with default --blueprint-filename(blueprint.yaml).

Reviewer: Same as in the CLI, I don't understand what it means.

Author: Fixed.

2021-03-31 14:07:38.124  CFY <resources> [node_a_vfhhzn] Creating node instance: nothing to do
2021-03-31 14:07:38.125  CFY <resources> [node_a_vfhhzn] Configuring node instance: nothing to do
2021-03-31 14:07:38.126  CFY <resources> [node_a_vfhhzn] Starting node instance
2021-03-31 14:07:38.432  CFY <resources> [node_a_vfhhzn.start] Sending task 'script_runner.tasks.run'
2021-03-31 14:07:39.101  LOG <resources> [node_a_vfhhzn.start] INFO: Downloaded install.py to /tmp/E6KY5/install.py
2021-03-31 14:07:39.102  LOG <resources> [node_a_vfhhzn.start] INFO: hi!!
2021-03-31 14:07:39.480  CFY <resources> [node_a_vfhhzn.start] Task succeeded 'script_runner.tasks.run'
2021-03-31 14:07:39.481  CFY <resources> [node_a_vfhhzn] Poststarting node instance: nothing to do
2021-03-31 14:07:39.484  CFY <resources> [node_a_vfhhzn] Node instance started
2021-03-31 14:07:39.661  CFY <resources> 'install' workflow execution succeeded
Finished executing workflow install on deployment resources
* Run 'cfy events list 57ad1536-8904-48cf-8521-70abeefa0c60' to retrieve the execution's events/logs
{{< /highlight >}}

> On the first invoke the blueprint uploaded and `resources` deployment created and installed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the first invocation, the blueprint was uploaded and `resources` deployment was created and installed. 
```

Author: Done.
